# Datetime Range

The datetime range control allows you to enter a datetime range in
either relative or absolute form. The relative section provides
predetermined relative periods. The absolute section provides an
unchanging from and to range. The date range is highlighted in green to
indicate whether a relative or absolute range is being used.

<div style="text-align: center">

<img src="../constellation/CoreDataAccessView/src/au/gov/asd/tac/constellation/views/dataaccess/docs/resources/DataAccessDatetimeRange.png" alt="Datetime Range Global
Parameter" />

</div>

## Relative Range

A relative range indicates a period ending "now" and starting at the
indicated time in the past. For example, if 2 days is selected, and a
data access query is run at 2015-01-30 09:30, the range used for the
query will be 2015-01-28 09:30:00 to 2015-01-30 09:30. If another query
is run ten minutes later, the range will be 2015-01-28 09:40:00 to
2015-01-30 09:40.

This is also true if a relative range is saved and loaded at a later
time: the datetime range will always end at "now".

NOTE: Selecting a relative period will update the absolute range fields.
However, this is done as an indication of the period when it was
selected. Since the relative period ends "now", and is therefore
continually changing, the values displayed in the absolute section are
immediately obsolete.

## Absolute Range

An absolute range allows you to specify the start and end of the range
as fixed instances in time. e.g. if 2015-01-23 09:30 and
2015-01-30 09:30 are used, the same range will be used whenever a query
is run.

The absolute range also allows to you select a timezone to be used to
display the absolute time range. A drop-down list contains all available
timezones, with convenience buttons for UTC and local timezones. When
the timezone changes, the time instant of each absolute datetime remains
the same: only the timezone in which the datetimes are displayed is
changed.

The "Use Maximum Time Range" button sets the time range to start at
00:00:00 and end at 23:59:59.
